[Music]
could you land on Jupiter soon when you
think about space exploration you
probably imagine a hi-tech spacecraft
landing on the surface of a distant
planet while this may be possible for a
number of planets it's simply not the
case for Jupiter and you're about to
find out why just don't forget to hit
that subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side of life we've already sent
spacecraft to Mars Saturn's largest moon
Titan and of course our own moon and
thanks to these landings we've learned a
lot about these places and we hope to do
the same with others unfortunately it's
a little more complicated when it comes
to studying the largest planet in our
solar system Jupiter if you decide to
land on Jupiter the first problem you'd
encounter is the gigantic planets
composition which is mostly made up of
helium and hydrogen the atmosphere also
has small fractions of ammonia methane
sulfur and water vapor
due to the pressure and temperature
differences the gases that make up
Jupiter's atmosphere separate into
layers this is what creates those red
and white bands that we can clearly see
from Earth it's a remarkable sight to
behold but it doesn't make your task any
easier triangle and on Jupiter would
basically be like landing on a cloud so
does this mean you'll just go right
through the planet from one side to the
other not at all first and foremost
without any oxygen in the atmosphere
you'll need to bring along huge supplies
of this gas just to be able to breathe
secondly as you'll be nearing the planet
you'll take the full brunt of the
incredible temperatures at the top of
Jupiter's atmosphere they can reach a
whopping 11 hundred 60 degrees
Fahrenheit you'll also be approaching
the planet under the pole of it's
incredible gravitation so your speed
will get as high as 110,000 miles per
hour in no time to survive such extreme
conditions as a challenging task just
take it from the Galileo probe which
reached Jupiter's atmosphere back in
1995 it survived scorching temperatures
as it started its descent
a kept moving even when the temperature
suddenly dropped down to 307 degrees
Fahrenheit and the pressure as well as
the wind speed increased but 78 minutes
into its exploration things went
downhill when overwhelming pressure
finished the probe off for good
so about 75 miles into the atmosphere
you'll approach the limit of human
exploration on Jupiter this is where the
49 hundred pound Galileo probe was
literally crushed by the atmospheric
pressure which is at this point over 100
times stronger than it is on the surface
of our planet but let's imagine your
spacecraft has been constructed with the
help of some state-of-the-art
technologies and can withstand what
Galileo couldn't you'll continue your
descent into a much denser layer of the
atmosphere you'll feel an impressive
impact but even this won't be enough to
stop your super high-tech shuttle three
minutes after you reach the dense
atmosphere you'll start to feel the
enormous force of Jupiter's rotation
Jupiter rotates much faster than any
other planet in our solar system which
means one whole day on this planet is
only about nine and a half earth hours
because of this violent winds whip
around Jupiter at a speed of over 300
miles per hour this rapid spinning also
makes electrical currents in the
metallic hydrogen generate electricity
making the magnetic field of the planet
even more powerful as soon as you
descend 430 miles lower the air pressure
will get 1150 times stronger than it is
on earth there's only been one man-made
craft that could withstand such pressure
and it was the Trieste Baths Cape it
reached an incredible depth of 35,000
797 feet while descending to the deepest
point of the Earth's ocean the
Challenger deep in the mariana trench
that's why if you go deeper than the
Galileo probe managed to reach you'll
uncover Jupiter's greatest mysteries
it's a shame you won't be able to share
your findings with others this deep into
Jupiter's atmosphere all radio waves get
absorbed you'll be absolutely shut off
and unable to communicate with the
outside world you also won't be able to
see anything
because of the horrendously low
visibility outside so you'll have to
trust your instruments to explore the
world around you now you'll have already
passed 2500 miles and the temperature
will have reached 60 100 degrees
Fahrenheit if the temperature gets just
a tiny bit higher it'd be enough to melt
even tungsten which has the highest
melting point of any metal known to
humankind and that's a whopping six
thousand 192 degrees Fahrenheit even
after descending for about 12 hours you
won't even be halfway through the planet
roughly thirteen thousand miles down the
pressure is almost two million times
stronger than the surface of our planet
as for the temperature it's getting
hotter than the surface of the Sun these
extreme conditions caused the hydrogen
around you to change from a gas to a
liquid like substance molecules get
pressed so close to each other that
their electrons separate and form what
is known as metallic hydrogen if you
move even deeper you'll experience the
metallic hydrogen's buoyancy force it'll
stubbornly counteract the downward pull
of the planets gravity as a result your
spacecraft will turn into a big yo-yo
the buoyancy of metallic hydrogen will
shoot you up and then gravity will pull
you down again these two forces will
eventually equalize which is bad news
for you unable neither to leave the
planet nor move further down you'll be
forever suspended in mid shoe Peter with
no way to escape but what if you manage
to defy the laws of physics and have a
peep at the core of the giant planet
then according to what scientists
presume you'll have to withstand
temperatures the human brain can't even
fathom 43,000 degrees Fahrenheit and if
we speak about the pressure at the
center of Jupiter it can't be compared
with anywhere on earth see for yourself
if you descend it to the bottom of the
Mariana Trench you'd experience pressure
equal to sixteen thousand pounds bearing
down on each
inch of your body this is the same as
the weight of four cars but at the
center of Jupiter 650 million pounds
would press on each square inch of your
body and that's no less than the
pressure from 160,000 cars stacked on
top of you scientists still aren't
completely sure if the very core of the
planet is a solid rock that's bigger
than Earth itself or a thick scorching
soup of molten substances we'll probably
know the answers one day once Juno has
fulfilled its mission Juno is a
spacecraft that was created with the
sole purpose of collecting as much
information about Jupiter as possible it
started its journey on August 5th 2011
and has been orbiting Jupiter since July
5th 2016 the spacecraft is currently
rotating around the poles of the giant
planet it goes far away from Jupiter and
then comes as near as 3,100 miles above
the clouds when Juno gets closer to the
planet its task is to find out whether
or not Jupiter has a solid core the
craft also maps the forceful magnetic
fields of the gaseous planet and the
amounts of ammonia and water deep down
in the atmosphere as a bonus it also
gets the opportunity to enjoy Jupiter
stunning Aurora's what does Jupiter
really hide beneath its layers and
layers of atmosphere a solid planetary
core or a bowl of hot spacesuit
that's the crackers
right your theories in the comments
below
remember to hit the like button share
this video with your friends and join us
on the bright side of life